doc/limit_offset_resultset.md, before:

---
title: Playing with result sets
subTitle: 
currentMenu: limit_offset_resultset
---

Paginating data with limits and offsets
---------------------------------------

When you perform a query with TDBM, you never pass the limit or offset to the DAO method you are querying.

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

// Iterate all users
foreach ($users as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

If you want to limit the number of records returned, or start at a given offset, you can use the `take` method.

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

$page = $users->take(0, 10);

// Iterate only the first 10 records
foreach ($page as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

What is going on behind the scene? When you query a TDBM DAO for a list, instead of returning an array containing the
results, TDBM will return a `ResultIterator` object. This object behaves like an array, so you can call `foreach` on it.
It is important to understand that the SQL query is not actually performed until `foreach` is called! This is
actually a nice thing, since we can call additional methods afterwards to modify the query. Like the `take` method.

Sorting
-------

We can also modify the sorting of your result set using the `withOrder` method:

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

// Changes the order of the query.
// Warning, this returns a new ResultIterator object!
$users = $users->withOrder('name asc, firstname asc');

foreach ($users as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

Parameters
----------

We can modify the named parameters of a query with the `withParameters` method:

```php
$users = $this->find("login LIKE :login");

// Changes the parameters of the query.
// Warning, this returns a new ResultIterator object!
$users = $users->withParameters([ 'login' => 'david%' ]);

foreach ($users as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

Mapping result sets
-------------------

Please notice that result sets have a very useful `map` method.

Let's say you want to build an array of all your users first name:

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

// The callback passed to the map function will be called once for each record in the recordset.
// You will get in $firstNames an array containing the list of callback results.
$firstNames = $users->map(function(User $user) {
    return $user->getFirstName();
});
```

ResultIterator utility methods
------------------------------

Here is a list of the methods you can call on a `ResultIterator`:

- `take($offset, $limit)`: this will add an OFFSET and a LIMIT to the query performed. The `take` method returns a 
  `PageIterator` instance that represents the "limited" results.
- `count()`: will return the total count of records.
- `first()`: will return the first element of the result set.
- `toArray()`: will cast the `ResultIterator` into a plain old PHP array.
- `map(callable $callback)`: will call the `$callback` on every bean of the recordset and return the matching array.
- `withOrder($orderBy) : ResultIterator`: changes the ORDER BY clause of your query (returns a **new** ResultIterator)
- `withParameters($parameters) : ResultIterator`: changes the named parameters of your query (returns a **new** ResultIterator)

Pages (retrieved with the `take` method) also have additional methods you can call:

- `count()`: will return the count of records in the page
- `totalCount()`: will return the total count of records (bypassing the limit and offset)
- `getCurrentOffset()`: returns the offset
- `getCurrentLimit()`: returns the limit
- `getCurrentPage()`: returns the page number (starting at one and based on the limit and offset given)
- `toArray()`: will cast the `PageIterator` into a plain old PHP array.
- `map(callable $callback)`: will call the `$callback` on every bean of the page and return the matching array.


Next step
---------

Let's now learn how to [regenerate DAOs](generating_daos.md) when your data model changes.
Or if you want to have a look at advanced stuff, learn how to [model inheritance in your database](modeling_inheritance.md).

Commit message:

(porpaginas) Revert "Update documentation"
This reverts commit ffde4381589fd0c39146681134b45adf77639e20.

doc/limit_offset_resultset.md, after:

---
title: Playing with result sets
subTitle: 
currentMenu: limit_offset_resultset
---

Paginating data with limits and offsets
---------------------------------------

When you perform a query with TDBM, you never pass the limit or offset to the DAO method you are querying.

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

// Iterate all users
foreach ($users as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

If you want to limit the number of records returned, or start at a given offset, you can use the `take` method.

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

$page = $users->take(0, 10);

// Iterate only the first 10 records
foreach ($page as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

What is going on behind the scene? When you query a TDBM DAO for a list, instead of returning an array containing the
results, TDBM will return a `ResultIterator` object. This object behaves like an array, so you can call `foreach` on it.
It is important to understand that the SQL query is not actually performed until `foreach` is called! This is
actually a nice thing, since we can call additional methods afterwards to modify the query. Like the `take` method.

Sorting
-------

We can also modify the sorting of your result set using the `withOrder` method:

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

// Changes the order of the query.
// Warning, this returns a new ResultIterator object!
$users = $users->withOrder('name asc, firstname asc');

foreach ($users as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

Parameters
----------

We can modify the named parameters of a query with the `withParameters` method:

```php
$users = $this->find("login LIKE :login");

// Changes the parameters of the query.
// Warning, this returns a new ResultIterator object!
$users = $users->withParameters([ 'login' => 'david%' ]);

foreach ($users as $user) {
    // Do stuff...
}
```

Mapping result sets
-------------------

Please notice that result sets have a very useful `map` method.

Let's say you want to build an array of all your users first name:

```php
$users = $userDao->findAll();

// The callback passed to the map function will be called once for each record in the recordset.
// You will get in $firstNames an array containing the list of callback results.
$firstNames = $users->map(function(User $user) {
    return $user->getFirstName();
});
```

ResultIterator utility methods
------------------------------

Here is a list of the methods you can call on a `ResultIterator`:

- `take($offset, $limit)`: this will add an OFFSET and a LIMIT to the query performed. The `take` method returns a 
  `PageIterator` instance that represents the "limited" results.
- `count()`: will return the total count of records.
- `first()`: will return the first element of the result set.
- `toArray()`: will cast the `ResultIterator` into a plain old PHP array.
- `map(callable $callback)`: will call the `$callback` on every bean of the recordset and return the matching array.
- `withOrder($orderBy) : ResultIterator`: changes the ORDER BY clause of your query (returns a **new** ResultIterator)
- `withParameters($parameters) : ResultIterator`: changes the named parameters of your query (returns a **new** ResultIterator)

Pages (retrieved with the `take` method) also have additional methods you can call:

- `count()`: will return the count of records in the page
- `totalCount()`: will return the total count of records (bypassing the limit and offset)
- `getCurrentOffset()`: returns the offset
- `getCurrentLimit()`: returns the limit
- `getCurrentPage()`: returns the page number (starting at one and based on the limit and offset given)
- `toArray()`: will cast the `PageIterator` into a plain old PHP array.
- `map(callable $callback)`: will call the `$callback` on every bean of the page and return the matching array.


Implements Porpiginas
---------------------

If you are already familiar with [beberlei/porpaginas](https://github.com/beberlei/porpaginas), you probably noticed
that TDBM result sets implement Porpaginas interfaces (the `Result` and `Page` concept comes from Porpaginas).

This means that you can easily migrate to and from any ORM that uses Porpaginas for its results. You can also
use any pagination library compatible with Porpaginas, like Pagerfanta.


Next step
---------

Let's now learn how to [regenerate DAOs](generating_daos.md) when your data model changes.
Or if you want to have a look at advanced stuff, learn how to [model inheritance in your database](modeling_inheritance.md).
